.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Arguments 3 "local: Hasch"
.SH NAME
Arguments \- procedures for command line processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
PROCEDURE InitArgs(infostring: ARRAY OF CHAR);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE Usage;
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE AllArgs;
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE GetFlag(VAR flag: CHAR): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetOpt( VAR flag: CHAR; VAR plus: BOOLEAN): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE UngetOpt;
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE GetArg(VAR argument: ARRAY OF CHAR): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE UngetArg;
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE FetchString(VAR string: ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE FetchInt(   VAR number: INTEGER);
PROCEDURE FetchCard(  VAR number: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE FetchOct(   VAR number: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE FetchHex(   VAR number: CARDINAL);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Arguments
module
supports reading and interpreting command arguments,
according to the following standard:
.RS
.TP \w'\f3\(mi\f2x\0value\f1\0'u
.BI \(mi x
Flags
are single characters preceded by a
.BR \(mi .
.TP
.BI \(pl x
Options,
however, can be preceded either by
.B \(mi
or
.BR \(pl .
.TP
.BI \(mi xy
Flags
or
options
with the same prefix
may be concatenated to one command argument,
without repeating the prefix.
.TP
.BI \(mi "x value"
A
value
follows a
flag/option
as the rest of the command argument or as the next command argument.
Nothing can follow a value in the same command argument.
The type of a
value
may be one of the following:
.I string,
or an
.SM
.B INTEGER,
.SM
.B CARDINAL,
.I octal
or
.I hexadecimal
number.
.TP
.B \(mi
as a command argument
is interpreted as a non-flag/non-option argument.
It should designate standard input or standard output
in place of a file.
.TP
.B \(mi\(mi
as a command argument
terminates flag/option processing
but is itself not interpreted as an argument.
Successing command arguments,
even when beginning with
.B \(mi
or
.B \(pl
are considered not to contain flags nor options.
.RE
.PP
The procedures are used as follows:
.PP
.I InitArgs
specifies
.I infostring
for
.I Usage
and (re)starts the reading cycle,
i.e. makes the first command argument
the next one to be read.
.PP
.I Usage
prints 'Usage: command infostring' onto standard-error and aborts
program execution ('command' stands here for the actual processes' name).
.PP
.I AllArgs
calls
.I Usage
if any command arguments are not yet read.
.PP
.I GetFlag
and
.I GetOpt
read one flag resp. option
from the argument list
or return
.SM
.B FALSE
if all of them have been read.
.I GetOpt
sets
.I plus
.SM
.B TRUE
if the actual option is of the kind
.BI \(pl x,
otherwise
.SM
.BR FALSE .
.PP
.I GetArg
reads one arbitrary argument or returns
.SM
.B FALSE
if all arguments have been read already.
.PP
.IR FetchString ,
.IR FetchInt ,
.IR FetchCard ,
.I FetchOct
and
.I FetchHex
read a value
of the specified type.
If the selected argument (part) is missing,
is not of the required type
or if a numerical value exceeds the range of
.IR number ,
.I Usage
is called implicitly.
.PP
.I UngetOpt
and
.I UngetArg
push back one
flag/option
resp.
argument
per call
to the list of not yet read command arguments.
Note that
.I UngetOpt
is not able to skip command arguments
that have been read using
.I GetArg
or
one of the
.I FetchXXX
procedures.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example may illustrate how to use some of the procedures:
.Pg
xflag := FALSE;
number := 1;
string := defaultstring;
InitArgs("[-x] [-s string] [-nnn] [file]...");
WHILE GetFlag(flag) DO
   CASE flag OF
      "x":     xflag := TRUE;
   |  "s":     FetchString(string);
   |  "0".."9":
               UngetOpt;
               FetchCard(number);
      ELSE  Usage
   END;
END; (*WHILE GetFlag*)
WHILE GetArg(filename) DO
   IF StrCmp(filename,"-") = 0 THEN
      (* process stdin *)
   ELSE
      (* process filename *)
   END;
END; (*WHILE GetArg*)
.Pe
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIARGC(3)\fP, \fIStrToNum(3)\fP, \fIStrings(3)\fP,
\fIStrSpec(3)\fP, \fIStdIO(3)\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Hasch,
University of Ulm
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Arguments.3,v 1.3 1999/01/25 10:30:02 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Arguments.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  1999/01/25  10:30:02  borchert
.\" \(em in NAME replaced by \- because catman honours \- but ignores
.\" manual entries without
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:37:28  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:01  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
