.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Attributes 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
Attributes \- set terminal display attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Attribute = (standout, underline, reverse, blink,
                  dim, bold, blank, protect, alternate);
TYPE AttributeSet = SET OF Attribute;
TYPE AttrInfo;
.sp 0.7
VAR Done: BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenAttrInfo(VAR atinfo: AttrInfo;
                       VAR tinfo: Term;
                       baudrate: CARDINAL;
                       out: FILE);
PROCEDURE CloseAttrInfo(VAR atinfo: AttrInfo);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE AvailableAttributes(atinfo: AttrInfo;
                              VAR atset: AttributeSet);
PROCEDURE SetAttribute(atinfo: AttrInfo; at: Attribute);
PROCEDURE SetAttributes(atinfo: AttrInfo; atset: AttributeSet);
PROCEDURE ResetAttribute(atinfo: AttrInfo; at: Attribute);
PROCEDURE ResetAttributes(atinfo: AttrInfo);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Attributes
allows to set display attributes on terminals
as defined in the \fIterminfo(4)\fP database.
.I OpenAttrInfo
associates
.I atinfo
(which is to be given as reference on further calls)
with a terminal description and an output file pointer.
Padding depends on
.I baudrate.
If
.I baudrate
is zero no padding will be done.
The terminal description
.I tinfo
must be non-local because
.I Attributes
does not copy it but keeps a pointer to it.
The space associated with
.I atinfo
can be released by calling
.I CloseAttrInfo.
.I AvailableAttributes
returns the set of supported attributes.
.PP
.I SetAttribute
enters the given display mode.
Characters written in the following are printed in this mode.
This mode is potentially left in case of cursor movements
or even on going to the next line.
Multiple calls of
.I SetAttribute
can affect modes set earlier.
.I SetAttributes
should be used instead.
.I ResetAttribute
exits the display mode previously entered by
.I SetAttribute.
.I SetAttributes
allows to set several modes simultaneously.
But this does not work well on every terminal.
.I ResetAttributes
restores the terminal to a normal state
without any display attributes set.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Tb TermInfo(3)
.Tp TermInfo(3)
interface to the terminfo(4) database
.Tp terminfo(4)
terminfo database
.Tp Windows(3)
high-level interface to attributes
.Te
.SH BUGS
Some terminals code display modes in one or more extra characters
(represented as blanks on the screen).
The number of extra characters used by these terminals
is found in
.I tinfo^.MagicCookieGlitch.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Attributes.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:37:48 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Attributes.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:37:48  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:02  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
