.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Directories 3 "local:Ruess"
.SH NAME
Directories \- reading directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
FROM SystemTypes IMPORT DirSize, OFF;
.sp 0.7
TYPE DIR;
TYPE FileName = ARRAY [0..DirSize-1] OF CHAR;
TYPE
   Direct =
      RECORD
         ino: CARDINAL;
         name: FileName;
      END;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenDir(VAR dirp: DIR; filename: ARRAY OF CHAR) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE ReadDir(dirp: DIR; VAR direct: Direct) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE TellDir(dirp: DIR; VAR offset: OFF) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE SeekDir(dirp: DIR; offset: OFF) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE RewindDir(dirp: DIR) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE CloseDir(VAR dirp: DIR);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I OpenDir
opens a directory with the name 
.I filename
and associates a directory stream
with it.
.PP
.I ReadDir
returns the name and the inode number of the file.
It returns
.B FALSE
upon reaching the end of the directory or detecting an invalid seekdir
operation.
.PP
.I TellDir
sets
.I offset
to the current location associated with the named directory stream.
.PP
.I SeekDir
sets the position of the next
.I ReadDir
operation on the directory stream.
.PP
.I RewindDir
sets the position of the named directory stream
to the beginning of the directory.
.PP
.I CloseDir
closes the named directory stream.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All routines except
.I CloseDir
return
.B FALSE
in error case.
.SH AUTHOR
Harald Ruess
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Directories.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:38:42 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Directories.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:38:42  borchert
.\" formatting changed and AUTHOR added
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:07  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
