.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH EtcGroup 3 "local: Hasch"
.SH NAME
EtcGroup \- scanning and searching the /etc/group file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE MemberList = POINTER TO Member;
TYPE Member =
         RECORD
            logname:  ARRAY [0..7] OF CHAR;
            nextmem:  MemberList;
         END;
TYPE Grent =
         RECORD
            grname:   ARRAY [0..7] OF CHAR;
            password: ARRAY [0..15] OF CHAR;
            gid:      CARDINAL;
            members:  MemberList;
         END;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenGr(filename: ARRAY OF CHAR): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetGrent(VAR grent: Grent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetGrgid(gid: CARDINAL; VAR grent: Grent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetGrnam(grn: ARRAY OF CHAR; VAR grent: Grent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE ReopenGr(): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE CloseGr(): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE FetchGrgid(gid: CARDINAL; VAR grent: Grent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE FetchGrnam(grn: ARRAY OF CHAR; VAR grent: Grent): BOOLEAN;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I EtcGroup
module can be used to scan entries of
files that have a structure as described in
.I group(4)
into a
.I Grent
type record.
.br
Within
.I Grent,
the
.I members
field is a
(possibly empty)
.BR NIL -terminated
list of users allowed in the group.
.PP
Between
.I OpenGr
and
.I CloseGr,
any (using
.IR GetGrent )
or the next entry whose gid cf. grname field matches
.I gid
cf.
.I grn
(using
.I GetGrgid
cf.
.IR GetGrnam )
that has not yet been read
will be written into the
.I grent
record.
.br
At end of file, the
.I GetXXX
functions return
.B FALSE
and the data in
.I grent
is not valid.
.br
.I ReopenGr
restarts reading the file from the top
if it is seekable,
otherwise reports an error.
.PP
Opening the file
"/etc/group",
searching for a single group ID cf. group name
and closing the file again,
can all be done at once using
.I FetchGrgid
cf.
.I FetchGrnam.
This is useful for mapping numerical group IDs to group names, e.g.,
which is the main purpose of this module.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All
.B BOOLEAN
functions return
.B TRUE
on success, otherwise
.B FALSE.
.SH FILES
/etc/group
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIgroup(4)\fP, \fIPasswd(3)\fP, \fIStdIO(3)\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Hasch, University of Ulm
.SH BUGS
\fI/etc/nswitch.conf\fP is not honored.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: EtcGroup.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:39:15 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: EtcGroup.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:39:15  borchert
.\" formatting changed and BUGS added
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:11  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
