.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH FunctionKeys 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
FunctionKeys \- scan input for function keys
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
FROM StdIO IMPORT FILE;
FROM TermInfo IMPORT Term;
.sp 0.7
TYPE FunctionKey =
      (nokey,   (* no function key *)
       backspace,
       catab,   (* clear-all-tabs *)
       clear,   (* clear screen or erase *)
       ctab,    (* clear tab *)
       dc,      (* delete character *)
       dl,      (* delete line *)
       down,    (* down arrow key *)
       eic,     (* sent by rmir or smir in insert mode *)
       eol,     (* clear-to-end-of-line *)
       eos,     (* clear-to-end-of-screen *)
       f0, f1, f2, f3, f4, f5, f6, f7, f8, f9, f10,
       home,
       ic,      (* ins char/enter ins mode key *)
       il,      (* insert line *)
       left,    (* left arrow *)
       ll,      (* home-down *)
       npage,   (* next page *)
       right,   (* right arrow *)
       sf,      (* scroll-forward *)
       sr,      (* scroll-backward *)
       stab,    (* set-tab *)
       up);     (* up arrow *)
TYPE FunctionKeySet = SET OF FunctionKey;
TYPE CharSet = SET OF CHAR;
TYPE FKInfo;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenFKInfo(VAR fki: FKInfo; VAR t: Term;
                     baudrate: CARDINAL;
                     in, out: FILE);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE CloseFKInfo(VAR fki: FKInfo);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE Available(fki: FKInfo; VAR fkeys: FunctionKeySet);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE StartSet(fki: FKInfo; VAR startset: CharSet);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE EnableFunctionKeys(fki: FKInfo);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE DisableFunctionKeys(fki: FKInfo);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE Read(fki: FKInfo; timeout: BOOLEAN;
               VAR fkey: FunctionKey; VAR ch: CHAR) : BOOLEAN;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I FunctionKeys
allows to process function keys as defined
in the \fIterminfo(4)\fP database.
.I OpenFKInfo
associates
.I fki
(which is to be given as reference on further calls)
with a terminal description and file pointers
(\fIout\fP is used by
.I EnableFunctionKeys
and
.I DisableFunctionKeys
and
.I in
is used by
.IR Read ).
Padding depends on
.IR baudrate .
If
.I baudrate
is zero no padding will be done.
The terminal description
.I t
must be non-local because
.I FunctionKeys
does not copy it but keeps a pointer to it.
The space associated with
.I fki
can be released by calling
.IR CloseFKInfo .
.PP
.I Available
returns the set of supported function keys.
.I StartSet
returns the set of characters function key codes start with.
This is useful to decide whether timeouts are needed or not.
Single character function key codes are not included in this set.
.PP
.I EnableFunctionKeys
and
.I DisableFunctionKeys
output code (if defined in the terminfo database) to
enable, or disable respectively, the generation of function key codes.
.PP
.I Read
reads subsequently characters from input until a function key is
encoded,
or the input read so far cannot be a function key,
or if
.I timeout
is set and a timeout (one second) occurred.
If no function key has been found,
.I fkey
is set to
.I nokey
and the first character read is returned in
.IR ch .
Remaining characters are returned in subsequent calls.
Function keys are returned in
.IR fkey .
Single character function key codes are returned in
.I fkey
and
.IR ch .
Else
.I ch
is set to 0C.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fITermInfo(3)\fP, \fIWindows(3)\fP
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: FunctionKeys.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:39:45 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: FunctionKeys.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:39:45  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:14  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
