.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH L 3 "local:Stanglow"
.ds iN "\fIi1\fP\ \&.\&. \fIi8\fP
.SH NAME
L \- append formatted output to longs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
(* diagnostic *)
PROCEDURE done () : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE success() : FmtExitCode;
.sp 0.7
(* error handling *)
PROCEDURE setmode (mode : BITSET);
PROCEDURE getmode (VAR mode : BITSET);
.sp 0.7
(* output *)
PROCEDURE printf0 (long : Long; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE printf1 (long : Long; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR;
   i1 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
PROCEDURE printf2 (long : Long; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR;
   i1,i2 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.sp 0.3
(* ... *)
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE printf8 (long : Long; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR;
   i1, i2, i3, i4, i5, i6, i7 , i8 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I printf0
\&..\&
.I printf8
convert their parameters \*(iN,
instantiate them into the format string
.I fmt
and append the resulting text to
.IR long .
Refer to
.I Printf(3)
for a detailed description of formatting
capabilities.
.LP
Since the prior contents of
.I long
remains uneffected by
further calls of
.I printf0
\&..\&
.I printf8
the output can
be collected.
Allocation and handling
of
.I long
is in responsibility of
the environment
using
.IR L \&.
.I LongStrings(3)
and
.I OutLines(3)
provide the necessary procedures.
.LP
.I done
returns
.B TRUE
if the
last call of
.I printf0
\&..\&
.I printf8
was successful,
more detailed information
can be obtained
by
.I success
.RI ( FmtExitCode
is imported from
.IR Printf ).
.LP
.I setmode
defines a new error handling mode
.I mode
which is by default
set to
.IR Printf.Default .
.I getmode
yields the current mode.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostic is unnecessary
unless default
error handling strategy has been explicitly
modified
by prior calls
of
.IR setmode \&.
See
.I Printf(3)
for more details.
.IP
.DS
[fatal] L.printf1(...,"%h",...);
        Bad format: illegal conversion character.
[a.out] Exit code 205. Stop.
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR Printf(3) ,
.IR LongStrings(3) ,
.I OutLines(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Stanglow
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: L.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:40:13 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: L.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:40:13  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:18  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
