.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH LongStrings 3 "local:Stanglow"
.SH NAME
LongStrings \- dynamic strings handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Long;
.sp 0.7
CONST LastChar = -1; NotFound = -2;
.sp 0.7
(* handling of longs *)
PROCEDURE Alloc (VAR long : Long);
PROCEDURE Dispose (VAR long : Long);
PROCEDURE Free (VAR long : Long);
PROCEDURE StrAdr(long : Long) : ADDRESS;
PROCEDURE StrSize(long : Long) : CARDINAL;
PROCEDURE CutLong(long : Long; newsize : CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE ClearLong (long : Long);
.sp 0.7
(* diagnostic *)
PROCEDURE ValidLong(long : Long) : BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
(* appending text *)
PROCEDURE AddString(long : Long; text : ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE AddChar(long : Long; char : CHAR);
PROCEDURE AddBytes(long : Long; add : ADDRESS; n : CARDINAL);
.sp 0.7
(* searching  *)
PROCEDURE GetChar (long : Long; index : INTEGER) : CHAR;
PROCEDURE CountChar (long : Long; char : CHAR) : CARDINAL;
PROCEDURE FindChar(long : Long; char : CHAR;
                   offset, count : INTEGER) : INTEGER;
.sp 0.7
(* output *)
PROCEDURE Lwrite(long : Long; file : FILE) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE LwritePart(long : Long; from, to : INTEGER;
                     file : FILE) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE Echo(origin, echo : FILE) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE NoEcho(origin, echo : FILE) : BOOLEAN;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module handles with objects
called
.IR Long ,
which live in the dynamic memory area of
a process and may grow up to
any size the relevant system parameters admit.
Reallocation is performed implicitly
when the contents
of a
.I Long
is extended.
.LP
.I Alloc
creates
.I long
and allocates some memory for it.
.I Dispose
disposes
.I long
and deallocates the memory occupied.
.I Free
should be used instead of
.I Dispose
if many longs are
used very temporary (f.i. in the scope of a procedure).
This may improve performance and prevents from
a partition of the dynamic memory into many small pieces.
.LP
The contents
.I long
(i.e. the information stored)
is extented by
.IR AddChar ,
.IR AddString ,
and
.IR AddBytes \&.
AddChar adds a single character
.IR char ,
.I AddString
appends a
string
.I text
(up to terminating null byte
respectively \fBHIGH\fP(\fItext\fP)
and 
.I AddBytes
copies
.I n
bytes
found at
the address given
by
.I adr
into
the contents
of
.IR long .
By means
of
.I AddBytes
and
.I AddChar
even
null bytes can be added.
.LP
.I StrSize
yields the effective
size of
.IR long ,
i.e. the number of bytes currently
stored.
A new size
.I newsize
can be defined
by
.IR CutLong \&.
.IR ClearLong ( long )
is equivalent \fICutLong\fP(\fIlong\fP, \fB0\fP).
.LP
The contents of long
is always a coherent
memory
area beginning
at the address
returned by
by
.IR StrAdr .
LongStrings guarantees a null
byte to be found at
.IR StrAdr ( long )
+
.IR StrSize ( long ).
.LP
Important note:
.IR StrAdr ( long )
is not a constant throughout the
lifetime of
.I long.
.LP
.I GetChar ,
.I CountChar ,
and
.I FindChar
access the contents
of
.IR long \&.
GetChar
returns the character
found at
position
.I index
(ranging from 0
to size\(em1).
.I index may be
.I LastChar
to obtain the last 
character of a long.
.I CountChar
counts the
appearances of
.I char
in the contents
of
.IR long \&.
.I FindChar
looks for
a certain character.
Searching is begun
at
position
.I offset
.RI ( LastChar  
means end of contents)
and executed backward
if
.I count
is negative .
If
.I char
is found \fBABS\fP(\fIcount\fP)
times,
.I FindChar
returns the
corresponding index into contents,
otherwise the result will be
.BR NotFound .
.LP
.I Lwrite
writes
the whole
contents
of
.I long
to the
given
.IR file ,
.I LwritePart
outputs
a subrage
specified by
.RI [ from , to ].
.LP
.I Echo
defines
an
echo file
.I echo
for
file
.I source .
Each further output
by
.I Lwrite
and
.I LwritePart
to file
.I source
will be
written to
all its echo files as well.
.I NoEcho
with the same arguments
as a
prior call
of
.I Echo
deletes an echo definition.
.LP
Note that any output of the modules
.IR P ,
.IR F ,
.IR E 
and
.I OutLines
may be echoed.
.SH DIAGNOSTIC
.I ValidLong
returns
.B TRUE ,
if
.I long
is regarded as a valid long.
A long becomes
invalid if
disposed or freed or if
allocation or reallocation fails
because
the process runs out of memory.
By default,
.I LongStrings
will not recover
from the latter situation
since
.I Storage(3)
would terminate the program before.
.LP
Output routines
return
.B FALSE
in any case of error,
.I StrSize
and
.I StrAdr
return
.B 0
respectively
.B NIL
if
.I long
is not a valid argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR E(3) ,
.IR F(3) ,
.IR P(3) ,
.IR OutLines(3) ,
.I Storage(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Stanglow
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: LongStrings.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:40:18 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: LongStrings.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:40:18  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:19  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
