.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH MainWin 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
MainWin \- simple screen operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
VAR mainwin: Window;
VAR lines, columns: CARDINAL;
VAR Done: BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE SetPos(line, column: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE GetPos(VAR line, column: CARDINAL);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE Clear;
PROCEDURE Flush;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE WriteString(s: ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE Write(ch: CHAR);
PROCEDURE WriteLn;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE Read(VAR ch: CHAR);
PROCEDURE ReadString(VAR s: ARRAY OF CHAR);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE WriteInt(i: INTEGER; w: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE ReadInt(VAR i: INTEGER);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE WriteCard(c: CARDINAL; w: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE ReadCard(VAR c: CARDINAL);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I MainWin
bases on
.I Windows(3)
and
.I FtdWin(3)
and offers some less sophisticated procedures.
All procedures affect
.I mainwin
which is created during initialization.
The attributes
.I flushoninput,
.I echo,
and
.I movecursor
(see Windows(3)) are initially set.
The number of lines and columns are stored in
.I lines
and
.I columns.
Cleanup and terminal resetting is done automatically on program termination.
See \fIWindows(3)\fP and \fIFtdWin(3)\fP for more detailed explanations.
.PP
Note that
.I OpenDevice
must not called if
.I MainWin
is imported.
Further windows must be created using
.IR mainwin .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Done
is set to
.B FALSE
on failures.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIFtdWin(3)\fP,
\fIWindows(3)\fP
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: MainWin.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:40:23 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: MainWin.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:40:23  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:20  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
