.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Menus 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
Menus \- display and execution of menu windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Menu;
.sp 0.7
VAR Done: BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE CreateMenu(VAR menu: Menu; title: ARRAY OF CHAR);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE AddCommand(menu: Menu;
                     cmd: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                     cmdno: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE AddProcedure(menu: Menu;
                       cmd: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                       cmdproc: PROC);
PROCEDURE AddSubMenu(menu: Menu;
                     cmd: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                     submenu: Menu);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE ExecMenu(menu: Menu; background: Window;
                   VAR selected: CARDINAL);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE DisposeMenu(VAR menu: Menu);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Menus
is based on
.I Windows(3)
and allows to create and execute menus.
A menu
with headline
.I title
is created calling
.IR CreateMenu .
The headline may be empty.
The resulting parameter
.I menu
is used as reference on subsequent calls.
.I DisposeMenu
releases the space allocated with it.
.PP
A menu is constructed line by line by calling either
.IR AddSubMenu ,
.IR AddProcedure ,
or
.IR AddCommand .
The text to be printed on the menu line is given in
.IR cmd .
.I AddSubMenu
allows the construction of hierarchical menus.
The parameter
.I submenu
must be initialized previously by
.I CreateMenu
but is not necessarily complete.
So, recursive menus are possible.
.I AddProcedure
causes
.I cmdproc
to be called if the associated menu line is selected.
After having called
.I cmdproc
the user returns to the menu point selected previously.
.I AddCommand
causes on selection the complete menu hierarchy to disappear.
The parameter
.I cmdno
is then returned in
.I selected
of
.I ExecMenu.
.PP
.I ExecMenu
creates a window using
.I NewWindow
(see
.IR Windows(3) )
which fits into
.IR background .
The window is boxed and consists of the
underlined header line and the lines defined by
.IR AddSubMenu ,
.IR AddProcedure ,
and
.IR AddCommand .
The location of the
upper left corner depends on the current position in
.IR background .
The size of the window depends on the number of menu lines
and the maximum width of the
.I cmd
parameters and the headline.
If the number of lines does not fit into
.I background
only a part of the menu is displayed,
but scroll commands and a scroll bar
enable quick access to the other parts.
.I ExecMenu
returns
when the menu is left,
or a menu line created by
.I AddCommand
is selected.
The resulting parameter
.I selected
equals 0
if the menu is left.
The menu must not be changed during running
.I ExecMenu
by the procedures given to
.I AddProcedure.
But it is possible to append further menu lines when
.I ExecMenu
returns.
If calls of
.I ExecMenu
are nested
(due to calls of procedures given to
.IR AddProcedure )
redisplays
(on return of such procedures)
affect the innermost menu hierarchy only.
.PP
Menu selection is done by function keys:
.I up
and
.I down
for movement,
.I right
for selection,
and
.I left
for leaving the menu.
Alternatively the
.I vi(1)
movement commands ('h', 'j', 'k', and 'l')
and the return key for menu selection can be used.
The
.I vi(1)
commands for fast movement can be used
on menus with scroll bar as follows:
.IP
.Tb 'XX'
.Tp \fB^D\fP
half page forward
.Tp \fB^F\fP
full page forward
.Tp \fB^U\fP
half page backward
.Tp \fB^B\fP
full page backward
.Te
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Done
is set to
.B FALSE
if
.I ExecMenu
fails.
This is possible if
.I background
has less then four lines
or not enough columns.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIWindows(3)\fP, \fIvi(1)\fP
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Menus.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:40:41 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Menus.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:40:41  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:21  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
