.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH OutLines 3 "local:Stanglow"
.SH NAME
OutLines \- pagewise output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
VAR MaxLines : INTEGER;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE SetFile(file : FILE);
PROCEDURE SetLong(long : Long);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE DefineLine(relatively: BOOLEAN; line : INTEGER) : BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OutAll() : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE OutNext() : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE OutPrev() : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE OutRange (begin, end : INTEGER) : BOOLEAN;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I OutLines
allows a pagewise output of text
stored in a dynamic string
of type
.I Long
(imported from
.IR LongStrings(3) ).
.LP
.I SetFile
defines
a new out stream
.I file
(default
.IR StdIO.stdout ),
.I SetLong
defines a
new output source
.IR long 
(no default)
and marks
.B 0
as the current line.
.LP
.I OutNext
outputs the next
at most
.I MaxLines
lines (default 23)
found in long to
stream
.IR file .
The last output line
becomes the new current line.
.LP
.I OutPrev
outputs
at most
.I MaxLines
preceding the current line.
The first output line
becomes the new current line.
.LP
.I DefineLine 
defines
a new current line.
If
.I relatively
is
.B TRUE
the old value is incremented
by
.I line
else
the current line is set to
.I line
(absolutely).
An absolute line number
may specified as
.B 0 
or
.B -1
to mark positions before or beyond any other line.
.LP
.I OutAll
outputs
.I long
completely and sets the current line
to
-1 (beyond any other).
.LP
.I OutRange
outputs
the range defined by
.RI [ from , to ]
without affecting the current line.
.LP
Each redefinition of
.I MaxLines
and any update
of the contents
behind long
requires
a reinitialization of output
by
.IR  SetLong \&.
.LP
The output produced by this modules
will be echoed to further files
after suitable calls of
.IR LongStrings . Echo .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Output routines return
.B FALSE
if output is exhausted,
if the requested lines
are not available
or if writing to
.I file
fails.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR LongStrings(3) ,
.IR L(3) ,
.I StdIO(3)
.SH BUGS
Output will fail,
if the
last character
of
.I long
is not a
newline (12C).
.LP
Unpredictable effects may occur
if the contents of
.I long
has been updated
without a following
reinitialization
of output
by
.IR SetLong .
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Stanglow
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: OutLines.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:40:48 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: OutLines.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:40:48  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:22  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
