.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH P 3 "local:Stanglow"
.ds iN "\f2i1\fP\ \&.\&. \f2i8\fP
.SH NAME
P \- formatted output to stdout
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
(* diagnostic *)
PROCEDURE done () : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE success() : FmtExitCode;
.sp 0.7
(* error handling *)
PROCEDURE setmode (mode : BITSET);
PROCEDURE getmode (VAR mode : BITSET);
.sp 0.7
(* output *)
PROCEDURE rintf0 (fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE rintf1 (fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR; i1 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
PROCEDURE rintf2 (fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR; i1,i2 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.sp 0.3
(* ... *)
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE rintf8 (fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR; i1, i2, i3, i4, i5,
   i6, i7 , i8 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I P.rintf0
\&..\&
.I P.rintf8
(the procedures are intended to be called qualified,
that explains their strange names)
convert their parameters \*(iN,
instantiate them into the format string
.I fmt
and output the resulting text on
.IR StdIO.stdout \&.
Refer to
.I Printf(3)
for a detailed description of formatting
capabilities.
.LP
Output of
.I P
is echoed to
all echo files defined
for
.I stdout
by means of
.IR LongStrings.Echo .
.LP
.I done
returns
.B TRUE
if the
last call of
.I P.rintf0
\&..\&
.I P.rintf8
was successful,
more detailed information
can be obtained
by
.I success
.RI ( FmtExitCode
is imported from
.IR Printf(3) ).
.LP
.I setmode
defines a new error handling mode
.I mode
which is by default
set to
.I Printf.Default.
.I getmode
yields the current mode.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostic is unnecessary
unless default
error handling strategy has been explicitly
modified
by prior calls
of
.IR setmode \&.
See
.I Printf(3)
for more details.
.LP
In case of errors
.I P.rintf0
\&..\&
.I P.rintf8
do not produce any output.
Errors may result
from
illegal format strings
or from problems when writing to
.I stdout
(error code
.BR CannotWriteStdout ).
.LP
Error message issued by
.I P
will contain information
about
their reason
and the affected procedure call:
.IP
.DS
[fatal] P.rintf1("%*u",...);
        Bad Format: too many format elements.
[a.out] Exit code 201. Stop.
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR Printf(3) ,
.IR LongStrings(3) ,
.IR StdIO(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Stanglow
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: P.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:40:55 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: P.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:40:55  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:23  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
