.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Passwd 3 "local: Hasch"
.SH NAME
Passwd \- scanning and searching the password file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Pwent =
         RECORD
            logname:  ARRAY [0..7] OF CHAR;
            password: ARRAY [0..15] OF CHAR;
            uid:      CARDINAL;
            gid:      CARDINAL;
            fullname: ARRAY [0..31] OF CHAR;
            dir:      ARRAY [0..31] OF CHAR;
            shell:    ARRAY [0..31] OF CHAR;
         END;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenPw(filename: ARRAY OF CHAR): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetPwent(VAR pwent: Pwent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetPwuid(uid: CARDINAL; VAR pwent: Pwent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE GetPwnam(logn: ARRAY OF CHAR; VAR pwent: Pwent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE ReopenPw(): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE ClosePw(): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE FetchPwuid(uid: CARDINAL; VAR pwent: Pwent): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE FetchPwnam(logn: ARRAY OF CHAR; VAR pwent: Pwent): BOOLEAN;
.DE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Passwd
module can be used to scan entries of
files that have a structure as described in
.I passwd(4)
into a
.I Pwent
type record.
.PP
Between
.I OpenPw
and
.I ClosePw,
any (using
.IR GetPwent )
or the next entry whose uid cf. logname field matches
.I uid
cf.
.I logn
(using
.I GetPwuid
cf.
.IR GetPwnam )
that has not yet been read
will be written into the
.I pwent
record.
.br
At end of file, the
.I GetXXX
functions return
.B FALSE
and the data in
.I pwent
is not valid.
.br
.I ReopenPw
restarts reading the file from the top
if it is seekable,
otherwise reports an error.
.PP
Opening the file
"/etc/passwd",
searching for a single uid cf. logname
and closing the file again,
can all be done at once using
.I FetchPwuid
cf.
.IR FetchPwnam .
This is useful for mapping numerical user IDs to names, e.g.,
which is the main purpose of this module.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All
.B BOOLEAN
functions return
.B TRUE
on success, otherwise
.B FALSE.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/passwd\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIpasswd(4)\fP, \fIEtcGroup(3)\fP, \fIStdIO(3)\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Hasch, University of Ulm
.SH BUGS
The \fI/etc/nsswitch.conf\fP file is not honoured.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Passwd.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:41:00 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Passwd.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:41:00  borchert
.\" formatting changed and BUGS added
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:23  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
