.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Screen 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
Screen \- simple screen operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Screen;
TYPE CursorVisibility = (normal, invisible, morevisible);
.sp 0.7
VAR Done: BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenScreen(VAR scr: Screen;
                     outfp: StdIO.FILE;
                     baudrate: CARDINAL;
                     lines, columns: CARDINAL;
                     terminal: ARRAY OF CHAR) : BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE OpenScreenTI(VAR scr: Screen;
                       outfp: StdIO.FILE;
                       baudrate: CARDINAL;
                       lines, columns: CARDINAL;
                       tinfo: TermInfo.Term);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE InitScreen(scr: Screen; lines, columns: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE CloseScreen(VAR scr: Screen);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE Lines(scr: Screen) : CARDINAL;
PROCEDURE Columns(scr: Screen) : CARDINAL;
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE ClearScreen(scr: Screen);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE SetCursor(scr: Screen; line, column: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE MoveCursor(scr: Screen;
          (* from *) line1, column1,
          (* to *)   line2, column2: CARDINAL);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE Scroll(scr: Screen; down: BOOLEAN;
                 line, column: CARDINAL;
                 lines, columns: CARDINAL);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE ResetScrollRegions(scr: Screen);
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE SetCursorVisibility(scr: Screen; visibility: CursorVisibility);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Screen
bases on
.I TermInfo(3)
and offers some optimized screen operations.
.I Done
is set to
.B FALSE
if no capability is found to do the work.
A
.I Screen
can be opened by either
.I OpenScreen
or
.I OpenScreenTI.
Both return on success a screen-pointer
.I scr
which is to be given
on subsequently operations on it.
Any output is sent to
.I outfp.
Padding depends on
.I baudrate.
If
.I baudrate
is zero no padding will be done.
.I OpenScreen
sends an initialization sequence to the terminal
but does not clear the screen.
No
.I ioctl(2)
system call is done.
So output setting like switch-off of tab-expansion
and newline-mapping are to be done previously.
Thus,
.I outp
needs not to be associated with a terminal.
.I InitScreen
repeats the initialization sequence of
.I OpenScreen.
.PP
.I CloseScreen
deallocates the space used for
.I scr
but does not close the output file-pointer
.I outfp
which has been given to
.I OpenScreen
or
.IR OpenScreenTI .
.PP
.I Lines
and
.I Columns
return the number of lines and columns of the given screen.
If the associated capability is not set 1 is returned.
.I ClearScreen
clears the screen.
.I SetCursor
moves the cursor to the given position.
Some optimizations (e.g. home position and last line) are done.
.I MoveCursor
takes
.I line1
and
.I column1
as the current position of the cursor
and outputs an optimized sequence to move to
.I line2
and
.IR column2 .
.PP
.I Scroll
scrolls a given window of a screen
one line downward (\fIdown\fP set to \fBTRUE\fP) or upward (forward).
The window is defined by the upper left corner
given by
.I line
and
.I column
and the number of
.I lines
and
.IR columns .
The cursor position is undefined if successful.
.PP
.I ResetScrollRegions
undoes all former settings for scroll regions and is useful
in a sequence of operations to restore a terminal to a sane state.
Note that this operation is not needed for any of the operations
above except for cases of abnormal termination in the middle
of a sequence that creates a scroll region temporarily.
.PP
The cursor visibility can be modified by calling
.I SetCursorVisibility.
Supported are \fInormal\fP, \fIinvisible\fP,
and \fImorevisible\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Tb TermInfo(3)
.Tp TermInfo(3)
interface to the terminfo database
.Tp Windows(3)
high-level interface
.Te
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Screen.3,v 1.3 1998/06/22 09:24:10 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Screen.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  1998/06/22  09:24:10  borchert
.\" - synopsis of OpenScreen, OpenScreenTI, and InitScreen fixed
.\" - ResetScrollRegions added
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:41:45  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:28  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
