.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Stack 3 "local:Stanglow"
.SH NAME
Stack \- store any objects in lifo-manner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Stack; 
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE Create (VAR stack : Stack; noelem : CARDINAL;
                  example : ARRAY OF BYTE);
PROCEDURE Dispose (VAR stack : Stack);
PROCEDURE Clear(stack : Stack);
PROCEDURE Elems (stack : Stack) : CARDINAL;
PROCEDURE Push (stack : Stack; elem : ARRAY OF BYTE) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE Pop (stack : Stack; VAR elem : ARRAY OF BYTE) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE Top(stack : Stack; pos : CARDINAL;
              VAR elem : ARRAY OF BYTE) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE Adr(stack : Stack; pos : CARDINAL;
              VAR adr : ADDRESS) : BOOLEAN;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module supports storage of objects on a stack realized
by type
.IR Stack .
.I Create
creates and allocates
a stack
.I stack
for 
.I noelem
elements.
The type of the objects
to be stored derives
from
.I example 
which must be of the same kind
than the data stored subsequently.
.I Dispose
deallocates
.IR stack ,
.I Clear
empties
it
and
.I Elems
returns the number of elements currently stored.
.LP
.I Push
and 
.I Pop
behave in the expected manner.
.I Push
puts a further element
.I elem
onto
.I stack ,
.I Pop
gets the element
stored
at last
and removes it from
the stack.
.LP
.I Top
yields
the
last
but
.IR pos 'th
element
pushed onto
.I stack
without removing it.
.LP
An object on
.I stack
may be accessed by
its storage address
obtained from 
.IR Adr \&,
which sets
.I adr
to the address
of the
last
but
.IR pos 'th
element stacked.
.LP
Using
.I Top
or
.IR Adr,
.I pos
=
.B 0
always refers to
the element on top
of
.IR stack \&.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All procedures check
overflow and underflow conditions
and
return
.B FALSE
in these cases. 
Stack access may also fail
if the parameters
.I elem
are not of a suitable type.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Stanglow
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Stack.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:41:51 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Stack.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:41:51  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:29  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
