.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 System Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1997 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH SysConf 3 "Ulm's Modula-2 System"
.SH NAME
SysConf \- configuration parameters of the local installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
PROCEDURE GetLibDir(VAR libdir: ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE GetRelease(VAR release: ARRAY OF CHAR);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I SysConf
allows to retrieve some of the configuration parameters
of the local installation.
.PP
.I GetLibDir
returns the directory where the Modula-2 compiler and the
library have been installed to.
Note that \fIGetLibDir\fP does not honour the \fBMODLIB\fP
environment variable.
Instead, it gives a reasonable default which should be taken
if \fBMODLIB\fP is not given.
.PP
.I GetRelease
returns a short string which specifies the release of
the local Modula-2 installation.
.SH FILES
The local library directory might be \fI@LIBDIR@\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIm2c(1)\fP
.SH BUGS
Note that these procedures return the parameters from
the system on which your program has been compiled.
Your program, however, may be run on quite a different system
with another installation if any.
For this reason, programs which depend on \fISysConf\fP
should be rebuild if they
are to be installed on other systems with different parameters.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: SysConf.3,v 1.1 1997/03/04 19:27:50 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: SysConf.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.1  1997/03/04  19:27:50  borchert
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
