.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH TermCap 3 "local:Ruess"
.SH NAME
TermCap \- interface to terminal capability data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE OutProc = PROCEDURE (CHAR);
TYPE DelayProc = PROCEDURE (CARDINAL);
TYPE Term = RECORD (* ... *) END;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE SetupTerm(tname: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                    VAR tinfo: Term) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE Tparm(VAR out: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                fmt: ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE Tparm1(VAR out: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                 fmt: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                 arg1: ARRAY OF BYTE);
PROCEDURE Tputs(str: ARRAY OF CHAR; affcnt: CARDINAL;
                outc: OutProc);
PROCEDURE TputsDelay(str: ARRAY OF CHAR; affcnt: CARDINAL;
                     outc: OutProc; delay: DelayProc);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I TermCap
allows to access the termcap database as described in \fItermcap(5)\fP.
The routines are similar to the termcap level routines of \fIcurses(3V)\fP
but no output is generated nor any \fIioctl\fP-calls are done.
This allows
.I TermCap
to work for more than one terminal at a time.
.PP
.I SetupTerm
looks for a terminal description for
.I tname
(an empty string causes the environment parameter \fBTERM\fP
to be taken).
On success \fItinfo\fP is filled and \fBTRUE\fP is returned.
Failures result from unknown terminals or corrupted
termcap database entries.
.PP
The type \fITerm\fP is generated from \fI/usr/etc/termcap\fP and
\fIwin/misc/term\fP.
The components for which exist a long name in \fIwin/misc/term\fP,
start with an upper case letter.
Underlines followed by lower case letters are replaced by
upper case (e.g. \fIcursor_address\fP becomes \fICursorAddress\fP).
The others start with 'T' followed by the two character code of the
capability (see termcap(5)).
Capabilities are of three different types:
\fIString\fP (fixed length character array),
\fBINTEGER\fP, and \fBBOOLEAN\fP.
Capabilities in \fITerm\fP which are not defined in the database
are set accordingly to empty strings, -1, and \fBFALSE\fP.
.PP
.I Tparm, Tparm1, ...
are used to decode the capability \fIfmt\fP and
to instantiate the parameters into \fIout\fP.
Delay information still remains in \fIout\fP.
These routines abort with a message on \fIStdIO.stderr\fP
on errors in \fIfmt\fP or on too few parameters.
.PP
.I Tputs
prints \fIstr\fP using \fIoutc\fP
and interpretes the delay information
which sometimes depends on the number of lines affected \fIaffcnt\fP
(give 1 if not applicable).
Because the baud-rate is not known no padding will be done.
Instead, a busy-loop with system calls
(resolution see \fIClock.UnitsPerSecond\fP)
does the work.
.PP
.I TputsDelay
works like
.I Tputs
but calls \fIdelay\fP if delay informations are found.
The delay time is given in tenth of milliseconds.
.SH CAVEAT
This module is provided on older BSD-systems only.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIcurses(3V)\fP, \fIterminfo(5)\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Harald Ruess
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: TermCap.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:43:17 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: TermCap.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:43:17  borchert
.\" formatting changed, CAVEAT & AUTHOR added
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:37  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
