.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH TimeIO 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
TimeIO \- i/o of time and date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE Style = (date, ls, env);
.sp 0.7
VAR Done: BOOLEAN;
VAR termCH: CHAR;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE WriteTime(format: ARRAY OF CHAR; time: Time);
PROCEDURE FwriteTime(file: FILE;
                     format: ARRAY OF CHAR; time: Time);
PROCEDURE SwriteTime(VAR string: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                     format: ARRAY OF CHAR; time: Time);
PROCEDURE WriteTimeLike(style: Style; time: Time);
PROCEDURE FwriteTimeLike(file: FILE;
                         style: Style; time: Time);
PROCEDURE SwriteTimeLike(VAR string: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                         style: Style; time: Time);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE ReadTime(VAR time: Time);
PROCEDURE FreadTime(file: FILE; VAR time: Time);
PROCEDURE SreadTime(string: ARRAY OF CHAR; VAR time: Time);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE WriteDate(format: ARRAY OF CHAR; date: Date);
PROCEDURE FwriteDate(file: FILE; format: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                     date: Date);
PROCEDURE SwriteDate(VAR string: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                     format: ARRAY OF CHAR; date: Date);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE ReadDate(VAR date: Date);
PROCEDURE FreadDate(file: FILE; VAR date: Date);
PROCEDURE SreadDate(string: ARRAY OF CHAR; VAR date: Date);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE Append(format: ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE Insert(format: ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE ReleaseList;
PROCEDURE DefaultList;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
The basic types of this module are
.I Time
and
.I Date
which are to be imported from
.IR Calendar(3) .
.I Time
is the systems type of time
(in seconds since January 1, 1970 GMT).
Earlier times are possible because
.I Time
is a
.BR LONGINT .
.PP
Output is done using formats which are close to those of the
\fIdate(1)\fP command.
All output fields are of fixed size (zero padded if necessary).
Each field descriptor is preceded by % and will be replaced in the
output by its corresponding value.
A single % is encoded by %%.
All other characters are copied to the output without change.
Note that despite to \fIdate(1)\fP no new-line character is
appended to the string.
.PP
Field Descriptors:
.TS
center;
lfB l.
n	insert a new-line character
t	insert a tab character
m	month of year - 01 to 12
d	day of month - 01 to 31
y	last 2 digits of year - 00 to 99
D	date as mm/dd/yy
H	hour - 00 to 23
M	minute - 00 to 59
S	second - 00 to 59
T	time as HH:MM:SS
j	day of year - 001 to 366
w	day of week - Sunday = 0
a	abbreviated weekday - Sun to Sat
h	abbreviated month - Jan to Dec
r	time in AM/PM notation
Y	year in 4 digits - 0000 to 9999
Z	timezone in 3 letters
.TE
Note that \fBY\fP and \fBZ\fP has been added.
.PP
.IR WriteTime ,
.IR FwriteTime ,
and
.I SwriteTime
print
.I time
according to the given
.I format
either to
.IR StdIO.stdout ,
.IR file ,
or into
.IR string .
If dates are printed using
.IR WriteDate ,
.IR FwriteDate ,
or
.I SwriteTime
then hour, minute, and second are set to null if printed.
.IR WriteTimeLike ,
.IR FwriteTimeLike ,
and
.I SwriteTimeLike
print
.I time
according to
.I style:
.LP
.Tb date
.Tp date
format of \fIdate\fP(1)
.Tp ls
format of \fIls\fP(1)
.Tp env
format found in the environment variable \fBTIMEFMT\fP
.Te
.PP
Reading of time and date depends on an ordered list of valid formats
and a set of termination characters.
This list can be extended using either
.I Append
or
.I Insert.
.I Append
appends a new format at the end of the list and
.I Insert
inserts a new format before the beginning of the list.
.I DefaultList
appends a set of standard formats to the list and
.I ReleaseList
disposes the current list.
The number of formats is limited, so
.I Done
should be checked after extending the list.
An input format consists of a sequence of some letters with
special meanings (see below) and other characters which must
match the input.
White space skipping (except new-line) is done by the reading procedure,
so white space must not be given in input formats.
.LP
Field descriptors in input formats:
.TS
center;
lfB l.
y	year, 88 becomes 1988
m	month, either 1 to 12 or Jan to Dec
d	day, 1 to 31
H	hour, 0 to 23
M	minute, 0 to 59
S	second, 0 to 59
.TE
.LP
Examples:
.TS
center;
l l.
"m/d/yH:M:S"	us-date, matches "10/23/88 23:11:10"
"d.m.yH:M:S"	german date, matches "23.10.88 23:11:10"
"md,y"	matches "Oct 23, 1988"
.TE
.LP
Input is read until any termination character is found or
none of the formats matches the input read so far.
Termination characters are all characters except those not given
in any of the input formats.
If more than one format applies the first is taken.
An input format needs not to include all time components.
Missing values are defaulted by the current time or set to their
minimal value.
Read dates and times must be representable in the corresponding types:
.LP
Valid time ranges:
.TS
center;
lfI l l.
Time	Dec 14, 1901 0:0:0	Dec 12, 2037, 23:59:59
Date	Jan 1, 100 0:0:0	Dec 24, 2037, 23:59:59
.TE
.LP
Note that years less than 100 cannot be read because they are defaulted
to the current century (so 88 becomes 1988).
The time ranges are independent from the timezone.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIdate(1)\fP, \fICalendar(3)\fP, \fIStdIO(3)\fP
.SH BUGS
The environment variable \fBLC_TIME\fP
(see \fIenviron(5)\fP and \fIsetlocale(3c)\fP) is
not honoured by this module.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: TimeIO.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:43:44 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: TimeIO.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:43:44  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:40  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
