.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH W 3 "local:Stanglow"
.ds iN "\f2i1\fP\ \&.\&. \f2i8\fP
.SH NAME
W \- formatted output to windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
(* diagnostic *)
PROCEDURE done () : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE success() : FmtExitCode;
.sp 0.7
(* error handling *)
PROCEDURE setmode (mode : BITSET);
PROCEDURE getmode (VAR mode : BITSET);
.sp 0.7
(* output *)
PROCEDURE printf0 (win : Window; line, col : CARDINAL;
   fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE printf1 (win : Window; line, col : CARDINAL;
   fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR; i1 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
PROCEDURE printf2 (win : Window; line, col : CARDINAL;
   fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR; i1,i2 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.sp 0.3
(* ... *)
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE printf8 (win : Window; line, col : CARDINAL;
   fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR; i1,i2, i3, i4, i5, i6, i7, i8 :
   ARRAY OF BYTE);
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE append0 (win : Window; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR);
PROCEDURE append1 (win : Window; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR;
   i1 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
PROCEDURE append2 (win : Window; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR;
    i1,i2 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.sp 0.3
(* ... *)
.sp 0.3
PROCEDURE append8 (win : Window; fmt : ARRAY OF CHAR;
    i1,i2, i3, i4, i5, i6, i7, i8 : ARRAY OF BYTE);
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I printf0
\&..\&
.I printf8
and
.I append0
\&..\&
.I append8
convert their parameters \*(iN,
instantiate them into the format string
.I fmt
and write the resulting text into
window
.I win \&.
Refer to
.I Printf(3)
for a detailed description of formatting
capabilities.
.LP
.I printf0
\&..\&
.I printf8
always write the first output character to 
the window position given by
.RI ( line , col ),
.I append0
\&..\&
.I append8
append the output to the current
window position
yield by
.IR Windows.GetWindowPos .
Output is restricted to those
characters,
.IR Windows.WindowWrite
would accept.
The rules concerning
interpretation of newlines or carriage returns
apply accordingly.
.LP
.I printf0
\&..\&
.I printf8
uses auto margin
and scrolling 
capabilities
if
.I Windows.scroll
is a current window attribute of
.IR win .
Otherwise
output must not exceed last column or last line
of the window.
No such restriction exists for
.I append0
\&..\&
.IR append8 ,
which will always use auto margin
and
scrolling mechanisms.
.LP
All procedures will flush
.I win
at most one
time.
Flushing is performed
if and only if
.I Windows.flushalways
is in the current attribute set
of
.IR win .
.LP
.I done
returns
.B TRUE
is the last output procedure call
was successful,
more detailed information
can be obtained
by
.I success
.RI ( FmtExitCode
is imported from
.IR Printf(3) ).
.LP
.I setmode
defines a new error handling mode
.I mode
which is by default
set to
.IR Printf.Default .
.I getmode
yields the current mode.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Diagnostic is unnecessary
unless default
error handling strategy has been explicitly
modified
by prior calls
of
.IR setmode \&.
See
.I Printf(3)
for more details.
.LP
Some problems arise on the output
of error messages if
.I StdIO.stderr
is associated
with the same device
than
.IR win .
.I E.EnterInitProc
and
.I E.EnterExitProc
provide a suitable
feature to
suspend and restore device
by means of
.I Windows.SuspendDevice
and
.IR Windows.RestoreDevice .
.LP
Be careful of devices not reset
on program termination in connection with
errors on window operations.
.LP
Besides illegal format strings
the following errors might occur
using
.IR W :
.IR IllegalWindowOffset ,
.I WindowTooSmall
(resulting from illegal arguments to
.I printf0
\&..\&
.IR printf8 ),
.I CannotFlushWindow
(failure of
.IR Windows.FlushWindow ) ,
.I CannotWriteWindow
(illegal output character)
.I CannotAccessWindow
(other errors).
.LP
Error messages issued by
.I W
contain information
about the their reason
and the affected procedure:
.IP
.DS
[fatal] W.printf1(...,30,0,"%u",...);
        Illegal parameter values: offset out of window.
[a.out] Exit code 206. Stop.
.DE
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR Printf(3) ,
.IR Windows(3) ,
.IR E(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Stanglow
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: W.3,v 1.2 1997/02/25 17:43:50 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: W.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/25  17:43:50  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:40  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
