.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH Windows 3 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
Windows \- screen handling routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Pg
TYPE TermType = ARRAY[0..31] OF CHAR;
TYPE Device;
TYPE Terminfo;
TYPE Window;
TYPE WindowAttributes = (flushalways, flushoninput,
                         nodelay, echo, scroll, movecursor,
                         funckeys, timeout, mapkeys, readcr);
TYPE WindowAtSet = SET OF WindowAttributes;
TYPE WindowStatbuf =
        RECORD
           dev: Device;
           in, out: FILE;
           fkinfo: FKInfo;
           atinfo: AttrInfo;
           scr: Screen;
           terminfo: TermPtr;
        END;
.sp 0.7
VAR Done: BOOLEAN;
.sp 0.7
PROCEDURE OpenTerminfo(VAR tinfo: Terminfo; termtype: TermType);
.sp 0.7
(* operations on devices *)
PROCEDURE OpenDevice(VAR dev: Device; devin, devout: FILE;
                     tinfo: Terminfo);
PROCEDURE OpenDeviceFile(VAR dev: Device; devname: ARRAY OF CHAR;
                         tinfo: Terminfo);
PROCEDURE Redraw(dev: Device);
PROCEDURE DeviceChar(dev: Device; line, column: CARDINAL) : CHAR;
PROCEDURE CloseDevice(VAR dev: Device);
PROCEDURE SuspendDevice(dev: Device);
PROCEDURE RestoreDevice(dev: Device);
.sp 0.7
(* operations on windows *)
PROCEDURE CreateWindow(VAR win: Window; dev: Device);
PROCEDURE CloseWindow(VAR win: Window);
PROCEDURE GetWindowAttributes(win: Window; VAR atset: WindowAtSet);
PROCEDURE SetWindowAttributes(win: Window; atset: WindowAtSet);
PROCEDURE NewWindow(VAR win: Window; newwinof: Window;
                    sx, sy, lns, cols: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE SubWindow(VAR win: Window; subwinof: Window;
                    sx, sy, lns, cols: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE GetWindowSize(win: Window; VAR lines, columns: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE GetWindowStart(win: Window; VAR line, column: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE GetSupWin(win: Window; VAR supwin: Window);
PROCEDURE IsSubWin(win: Window): BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE WindowStat(win: Window; VAR statbuf: WindowStatbuf);
PROCEDURE SetWindowPos(win: Window; line, column: CARDINAL);
PROCEDURE GetWindowPos(win: Window; VAR line, column: CARDINAL);
.sp 0.7
(* input/output on windows *)
PROCEDURE WindowWrite(win: Window; ch: CHAR);
PROCEDURE SetWindowDisplayMode(win: Window; atset: AttributeSet);
PROCEDURE WindowRead(win: Window; VAR ch: CHAR);
PROCEDURE IsFunctionKey(ch: CHAR) : BOOLEAN;
PROCEDURE ToFunctionKey(ch: CHAR) : FunctionKey;
PROCEDURE WindowChar(win: Window; line, column: CARDINAL) : CHAR;
PROCEDURE WindowUnget(win: Window; ch: CHAR);
PROCEDURE WindowClear(win: Window);
PROCEDURE ScrollWindow(win: Window; count: INTEGER);
PROCEDURE FlushWindow(win: Window);
.sp 0.7
(* coroutine-manager *)
PROCEDURE StartWinProcess(win: Window; process: PROC);
PROCEDURE TerminateWinProcess(win: Window);
PROCEDURE RunProcesses;
PROCEDURE Terminate;
.Pe
.SH DESCRIPTION
The basic objects of this module are windows.
Each window is associated with a screen part on a terminal device.
Each terminal device has a terminal type (e.g. "vt100").
.I Windows
accesses the terminal capability database terminfo(4)
and works for each terminal type described there.
.PP
Descriptions of terminal capabilities are referenced by
.I Terminfo
and can be opened using
.IR OpenTerminfo .
If an empty string is given to
.I termtype
the environment variable
.B TERM
is taken instead.
.PP
In the beginning at least one device should be opened using
.I OpenDevice
or
.IR OpenDeviceFile .
The given filepointers (typically
.I StdIO.stdin
and
.IR StdIO.stdout )
must be associated with a terminal device.
.I devout
should be buffered.
.I tinfo
references the terminal type.
Resulting parameter is
.I dev
which references the terminal device on further operations.
.I CloseDevice
restores the terminal settings (ioctl(2)),
closes the associated filepointers, and deallocates the space
used for
.IR dev .
.I Redraw
restores the screen contents.
This is necessary if external effects have modified the terminal screen.
.I DeviceChar
returns the character at position
.I line/column
on device
.IR dev .
The access of
.I Windows
to a device can be suspended by calling
.I SuspendDevice
(e.g. for shell escapes).
This includes terminal resetting (\fIioctl(2)\fP)
and cursor positioning to the last line.
.I RestoreDevice
ends the suspension and redraws the screen.
.PP
Each window (except subwindows) has its own screen contents
and cursor position
which can differ from the actual contents on the terminal device.
So write operations and cursor movements affect on default
the window contents only.
To update the screen part of a window on the terminal device
.I FlushWindow
is needed.
Because windows may overlap
it is possible to hide parts
of a window by flushing
another window.
Some attributes belong to a window
which can be read and set using
.I GetWindowAttributes
and
.IR SetWindowAttributes .
They have following meaning:
.Tb flushalways
.Tp flushalways
causes every write operation to be followed by
.I FlushWindow.
.Tp flushoninput
requests
.I WindowRead
to call
FlushWindow
before reading.
.Tp nodelay
causes
.I WindowRead
to return with
.I Done
set to
.B FALSE
if no input is available.
.Tp echo
causes
.I WindowRead
to echo the input being read.
.Tp scroll
enables scrolling on writing of \fIASCII.nl\fP in the last line
or after writing in the last column of the last line (automatic margin).
.Tp movecursor
requests
.I FlushWindow
to position the cursor on the terminal device
accordingly to the window cursor.
If supported by the terminal
the cursor is visible only if \fImovecursor\fP is set.
.Tp funckeys
enables function keys on reading.
Because this is local to a window typeahead of
function keys should be avoided.
.Tp timeout
is to be set in conjunction with \fIfunckeys\fP
and causes \fIWindowRead\fP not to hang on unfinished
function key codes.
.Tp mapkeys
requests even single character function key codes to be mapped
(e.g. the ASCII \fIbs\fP character is mapped to \fIbackspace\fP).
.Tp readcr
requests
.I WindowRead
not to map \fIASCII.cr\fP to \fIASCII.nl\fP.
.Te
.PP
The first window of a device
.I dev
is to be created using
.IR CreateWindow .
The number of lines and columns result from
the associated terminal type and can be retrieved using
.IR GetWindowSize .
.PP
Further windows can be created using
.I SubWindow
and
.IR NewWindow .
They are positioned relative (with offsets
.I sx
(line offset) and
.IR sy )
to
.I subwinof
or
.IR newwinof ,
respectively, and have a size
.RI ( lns
and
.IR cols )
which must fit into
.I subwinof
or
.IR newwinof ,
respectively.
The window attributes of
.I subwinof
or
.IR newwinof ,
respectively,
are inherited to
.IR win .
Subwindows have no screen contents of their own
but serve as mapping rule and update unit.
Like other windows they have their own cursor and their own attributes.
The
.I flushoninput
attribute has a special meaning for subwindows
and causes
.I subwinof
to be updated on reading, too.
Windows created by
.I NewWin
behave like windows created by
.IR CreateWindow ,
i.e. if more than one screen fitting window is needed,
.I CreateWindow
can be called again.
.PP
Some procedures retrieve informations about windows.
.I GetWindowSize
returns the number of lines and columns.
.I GetWindowStart
returns the relative offset to the terminal screen
in case of windows created by
.I NewWindow
or
.I CreateWindow
or the relative offset to
.I subwinof
in case of subwindows.
.I GetSupWin
returns the super-window, i.e.
.I subwinof
of subwindows.
.I IsSubWin
allows to distinguish
between subwindows and other windows.
.I WindowStat
returns a record containing further informations associated with
.I win.
The components of the record are system dependant,
e.g. \fIterminfo\fP is possibly a \fItermcap\fP reference
on Berkeley systems.
.PP
Cursor positioning is possible using
.I SetWindowPos.
Line and column numbers start from 0.
.I GetWindowPos
returns the current cursor position.
.PP
.I WindowWrite
writes
.I ch
at the current cursor position of the window.
Besides visible characters only few characters are permitted.
Back spaces, newlines, and carriage returns are translated
into cursor movements,
i.e. back spaces don't erase the window.
Visible characters cause the cursor to be moved
(with an automatic margin at the end of each window line).
If \fIscroll\fP is not set,
no scrolling takes place
after having reached the end of the last line of the window
and nothing can be written without
moving the cursor first.
.I WindowClear
fills
.I win
with blanks.
.I ScrollWindow
scrolls 
.I win
upward (\fIcount\fP > 0) or
downward (\fIcount\fP < 0)
\fBABS\fP(\fIcount\fP) lines.
.PP
.I SetWindowDisplayMode
sets the set of display modes for
.I win.
The type
.I AttributeSet
is to be imported from
.I Attributes.
The display mode is effective for
the given window until
.I SetWindowDisplayMode
is called again.
Unlike window attributes, display modes are not inherited
to subwindows.
Combinations of several display modes (cardinality of
.IR "atset > 1" )
do not work well for every terminal.
Terminals needing extra characters to store the display modes
are not supported.
Note that
.I WindowClear
does not affect the display modes;
e.g. reverse display mode followed by
.I WindowClear
causes the complete window to be set into reverse video.
.PP
.I WindowRead
reads one character into
.I ch
from the terminal associated with
.IR win .
If
.I flushoninput
is set
.I FlushWindow
is called for
.IR win ,
or if
.I win
is a subwindow for the window ordered above.
If the cursor on the terminal is to be left at the window cursor position
(and is to be made more visible if possible)
.I movecursor
should be set together with
.IR flushoninput .
On
.IR nodelay ,
.I WindowRead
returns immediately if no input is available.
Characters being read are written to
the current cursor position if
.I echo
is set.
If function keys are enabled
.I IsFunctionKey
can be used to distinguish between normal
characters and function keys.
.I ToFunctionKey
converts a character returned by
.I WindowRead
to a function key (type \fIFunctionKey\fP is imported
from module \fIFunctionKeys\fP).
.I ToFunctionKey
returns
.I nokey
if
.I ch
is not a function key.
Function keys are not echoed and cannot be given as argument
to
.IR WindowWrite .
.I WindowUnget
causes
.I WindowRead
to return
.I ch
on next call for this window.
.PP
.I WindowChar
returns the character at the given window position.
.PP
.I FlushWindow
updates
.I win
on the associated terminal device in an optimized way.
If
.I movecursor
is set for
.I win
the (visible) cursor on the terminal
is left at the corresponding window cursor position.
Else the cursor is invisible (if possible).
.PP
The coroutine-manager allows to serve more than one terminal
concurrently.
.I StartWinProcess
connects a coroutine procedure
.I proc
to
.IR win .
Coroutine procedures must not share a window nor a terminal device.
After having set up all coroutine procedures with
.I StartWinProcess
.I RunProcesses
transfers to the first of them.
The only way that a coroutine gets suspended is to call
.I WindowRead
with
.I nodelay
set.
.I WindowRead
then transfers to the next coroutine if no input is available.
A coroutine must not return but has to call
.I Terminate
for final suspension.
.I TerminateWinProcess
allows to kill other coroutines.
If all coroutines are terminated
.I RunProcesses
returns.
The stack for each coroutine is limited (currently 32768 bytes),
so big arrays should be allocated using
.I Storage
and not as local variables.
.\"The compile flag "-0c" must be given at linkage time to
.\".I m2c(1)
.\"if coroutine-managing routines are used from
.\".IR Windows .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Tb FunctionKeys(3)
.Tp Attributes(3)
set of available attributes and some associated low-level operations
.Tp FtdWin(3)
formatted i/o to and from windows
.Tp FunctionKeys(3)
set of available function keys and some associated low-level operations
.Tp MainWin(3)
a less sophisticated interface which offers one main window
.Tp Menus(3)
menus on base of \fIWindows\fP
.Tp Screen(3)
low-level screen operations which are used by \fIWindows\fP
.Tp TermInfo(3)
low-level interface to the terminfo database
.Tp W(3)
formatted i/o in \fIPrintf(3)\fP style to and from windows
.Te
.SH BUGS
.I Windows
is very slow if
.I devout
is unbuffered.
So
.I OpenDeviceFile
should be used instead of
.IR OpenDevice .
.PP
No character will be written at the last column of the last line
of a device.
This is necessary because some terminals scroll in this case
one line forward.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: Windows.3,v 1.3 1997/02/25 17:43:54 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: Windows.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  1997/02/25  17:43:54  borchert
.\" formatting changed
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1996/12/05  11:10:27  martin
.\" tabs thrown out of synopsis
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:19:41  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
