.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH M2C 1 "local:Borchert"
.SH NAME
m2c \- Modula-2 compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B m2c
[ option ] ... file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I M2c
is Ulm's Modula-2 compiler.
It accepts several types of arguments:
.PP
Arguments whose names end with `.m2' are taken to be
Modula-2 source programs; they are compiled, and
each object program is left on the file
whose name is that of the source with `.o' substituted
for `.m2'.
Further a reference file with suffix `.r' is left. See
.IR mdb(1)
for more information.
Names ending with `.d' are taken to be Modula-2 definition modules
and compiled, producing a `.sy' file.
The `.o' file is normally deleted, however, if a single
Modula-2 program is compiled and loaded all at one go.
Symbol files and reference files may be archived in
the files `SYM' and `REF'. If these archives exist,
.I m2c
tries to archive the corresponding output files.
.PP
In the same way,
arguments whose names end with `.s' are taken to be assembly source programs
and are assembled, producing a `.o' file.
.PP
The following options are interpreted by
.IR m2c .
See
.IR ld (1)
for load-time options.
.TP
.SM
.B \-a
Suppress archiving of the reference and symbol files even if
`SYM' and `REF' exist.
.TP
.SM
.BI \-B string
Use
.I @LIBDIR@/string
as an alternative library directory.
If \fIstring\fP is omitted, `old' is taken as default.
.TP 8
.B \-c
Suppress the loading phase of the compilation, and force
an object file to be produced even if only one program is compiled.
.TP
.SM
.B \-H
Support code generation of procedures with huge stack consumptions.
This option should only be given if it is explicitly requested by
an error message of the compiler because less efficient code will be
generated.
.TP
.SM
.B \-K
Request the compiler to produce null-valued symbol file keys.
This may be useful for regression or steady-state tests
of symbol files.
.TP
.SM
.B \-L
Arrange the compiler to produce a listing for each source file
in a corresponding `.l' file,
or in a `.ld' file if the source is a definition module.
.TP
.SM
.B \-m
The following argument is taken to be the main module.
Necessary only if no main module exists.
.TP
.SM
.BI \-o " output"
Name the final output file
.IR output .
If this option is used, the file `a.out' will be left undisturbed.
.TP
.SM
.B \-rN
This compiler supports three versions of Modula-2:
unrevised Modula-2 as defined in 1st and 2nd edition of
Wirth's \fIProgramming in Modula-2\fP (\fIN\fP = 0),
revised Modula-2 as defined in the \fIRevisions and Amendments to Modula-2\fP
(\fIN\fP = 1),
and revised Modula-2 as defined in the 3rd edition (default: \fIN\fP = 2).
All compile versions are full compatible.
.TP
.SM
.B \-R
Suppress clean up of temporary files.
.TP
.SM
.B \-S
Compile the named Modula-2 programs, and leave the
assembler-language output on corresponding files suffixed `.s'.
.TP
.SM
.BI \-Tdir
Allocate the temporary files of the compiler in the directory
.IR dir .
.TP
.SM
.B \-v
Verbose flag.
.I M2c
prints all executed commands to standard error.
.br
.mc
.PP
Other arguments
are taken
to be either loader option arguments, or Modula-2 compatible
object programs, typically produced by an earlier
.I m2c
run,
or perhaps libraries of Modula-2 compatible routines.
These programs, together with the results of any
compilations specified, are loaded (in the order
given) to produce an executable program with name
.B a.out.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I M2c
looks for two environment parameters:
.B MODLIB
and
.B MODPATH.
If
.B MODLIB
is given,
.I m2c
calls the compiler passes in the directory
.B $MODLIB.
.B MODPATH
specifies a list of directories, separated with colons (like
.BR PATH ).
Each of these directories consists of a
.I SYM
archive of symbol files, a
.I REF
archive of reference files and archives with suffix `.a'.
If the compiler looks for a symbol file or \fIld(1)\fP for
library modules, this search path is used.
.SH FILES
.Tb '@LIBDIR@/m2_error  '
.Tp file.m2
main or implementation module
.Tp file.d
definition module
.Tp SYM
archive with symbol files
.Tp REF
archive with reference files
.Tp file.o
object file
.Tp file.sy
symbol file
.Tp file.r
reference file
.Tp a.out
loaded output
.Tp /tmp/mtm*
temporaries for
.I m2c
.Tp @LIBDIR@/modula
4-pass compiler
.Tp @LIBDIR@/m2e
lister
.Tp @LIBDIR@/m2_error
file with error messages
.Tp @LIBDIR@/m2rt0.o
runtime startoff
.Tp @LIBDIR@/libm2.a
standard library
.Tp @LIBDIR@/SYM
symbol files of the std library
.Tp @LIBDIR@/REF
reference files of the std library
.Te
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Niklaus Wirth,
.I Programming in Modula-2,
Springer-Verlag,
1982 (1st ed.) and 1985 (3rd ed.)
.br
Niklaus Wirth,
.I Revisions and Amendments to Modula-2,
ETH Z\*urich,
1984
.br
ld(1), mdb(1), mmm(1), mtags(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by Modula-2 itself are intended to be
self-explanatory.
.PP
Some symbol file key mismatches lead to error messages of
the loader similar to following example:
.Pg
Undefined                       first referenced
 symbol                             in file
M.XXX_857052922_16922_120           YYY.o
ld: fatal: Symbol referencing errors. No output written to main
.Pe
A module named \fIXXX\fP was imported by \fIYYY\fP.
While \fIXXX\fP was expected to have the symbol file key
\fB857052922_16922_120\fP, the loader happened to find another
version of \fIXXX\fP which is incompatible to that version
which was seen by \fIm2c\fP on compilation of \fIYYY\fP.
In such cases it may be useful to remove all objects,
to update all makefiles (using \fImmm -u\fP), and to call \fImake(1)\fP
again.
.SH CAVEAT
The first 11 characters of the module name should be identical to the
file name.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: m2c.1,v 1.6 1999/02/10 16:45:12 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: m2c.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.6  1999/02/10  16:45:12  borchert
.\" -H added; options alphabetically ordered
.\"
.\" Revision 1.5  1997/02/27  18:18:03  borchert
.\" - option -LP removed
.\" - hints about ld-messages regarding key mismatches added to DIAGNOSTICS
.\"
.\" Revision 1.4  1997/02/24  17:56:37  borchert
.\" - @LIBDIR@ instead of /usr/local/lib/modula
.\" - Zuerich with umlaut
.\" - .Tb { .Tp } .Te instead of .ta
.\"
.\" Revision 1.3  1997/02/24  16:55:33  borchert
.\" - options which are no longer supported or useful for the
.\"   SPARC-version of the compiler have been commented out
.\" - FILES section updated
.\"
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/01/22  15:16:13  borchert
.\" XELOS replaced by Ulm's
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:17:59  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
