.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Ulm's Modula-2 Compiler and Library Documentation
.\" Copyright (C) 1983-1996 by University of Ulm, SAI, 89069 Ulm, Germany
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH mtags 1 "local: Borchert"
.SH NAME
mtags \- create a tags file for Modula-2 sources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mtags
name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mtags
makes a tags file for
.I ex(1)
from the specified Modula-2 sources.
Note that either program modules and implementation modules should be given
or just definition modules to avoid name clashes.
A tags file gives the locations of specified objects (in this case
procedures) in a group of files.
Each line of the tags file contains the procedure name,
the file in which it is defined, and a scanning pattern used to find
the procedure definition.
These are given in separate fields on the line,
separated by blanks or tabs.
Using the
.I tags
file,
.I ex
can quickly find these procedure definitions.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Mtags
issues warnings if equally-named procedures are found.
In this case they may be find only by giving a fully-qualified
name which includes all enclosing modules and procedures.
.SH FILES
.Tb tags
.Tp tags
output tags file
.Te
.SH SEE ALSO
ex(1), vi(1)
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Id: mtags.1,v 1.2 1997/02/24 18:28:10 borchert Exp $
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" $Log: mtags.1,v $
.\" Revision 1.2  1997/02/24  18:28:10  borchert
.\" - DIAGNOSTICS added
.\" - .ta replaced by .Tb ... .Te
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1996/12/04  18:18:02  martin
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
